README.md, before:

# Paul Blake's Personal Website

A modern Next.js website featuring a blog, project showcase, and personal information. Built with MDX for rich content creation and deployed with Docker and CI/CD automation.

<!-- Trigger deployment to fix profile image display - 2025-06-10 -->

This is a personal website and blog built with [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) using the Pages Router. The site features a main blog and a dedicated theology section for Christian faith, theological discussions, and philosophy.

## Features

- **Personal Blog**: Thoughts on development, technology, and general interests
- **Theology Section**: Dedicated area for Christian faith, theology, philosophy, and science discussions
- **MDX Support**: Write blog posts in Markdown with React component support
- **Responsive Design**: Clean, modern UI that works on all devices
- **Static Site Generation**: Optimized performance with Next.js SSG
- **Docker Support**: Containerized for easy deployment

## Project Structure

```
├── content/
│   └── blog/
│       ├── theology/           # Theological blog posts
│       ├── first-post.mdx     # Regular blog posts
│       └── second-post.mdx
├── pages/
│   ├── blog/
│   │   ├── theology/          # Theology section pages
│   │   │   ├── index.js       # Theology blog index
│   │   │   └── [slug].js      # Individual theology posts
│   │   ├── index.js           # Main blog index
│   │   └── [slug].js          # Individual blog posts
│   └── index.js               # Homepage
└── styles/
    └── globals.css
```

## Getting Started

### Development

First, install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Then run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

### Docker Development

You can also run the project using Docker:

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t paul-blake-website .

# Run the container
docker run -p 3010:3010 paul-blake-website
```

Or use Docker Compose:
 
```bash
docker compose up
```

## Blog Content

### Writing Blog Posts

- **Regular Posts**: Add `.mdx` files to `content/blog/`
- **Theology Posts**: Add `.mdx` files to `content/blog/theology/`

Each post requires frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: "Your Post Title"
date: "2025-01-27"
author: "Paul Blake"
---
```

### Theology Section

The theology section (`/blog/theology`) is dedicated to:
- Christian faith and doctrine
- Theological discussions and apologetics
- Philosophy and worldview topics
- Science and faith intersection

## Deployment

### Automated Deployment to Unraid

This project includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically deploys to an Unraid server on every push to the `main` branch.

#### Workflow Features:
- **Docker Build**: Creates optimized Docker image for `linux/amd64`
- **Docker Hub Push**: Pushes image to Docker Hub registry
- **SSH Deployment**: Pulls latest image and restarts on Unraid server
- **Auto Cleanup**: Removes old Docker images to save space

#### Required GitHub Secrets:

Set these in your repository settings under **Settings** → **Secrets and variables** → **Actions**:

| Secret | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `DOCKER_USERNAME` | Docker Hub username | `your-username` |
| `DOCKER_TOKEN` | Docker Hub access token | `dckr_pat_...` |
| `UNRAID_HOST` | Unraid server IP address | `192.168.1.100` |
| `UNRAID_USERNAME` | Unraid username | `root` |
| `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | SSH private key for Unraid access | `-----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----...` |

#### Deployment Process:
1. Code is pushed to `main` branch
2. GitHub Actions builds Docker image
3. Image is pushed to Docker Hub registry
4. SSH into Unraid server and pull latest image from Docker Hub
5. Docker Compose restarts container with new image
6. Old images are cleaned up automatically

#### Docker Compose Configuration:

Your `docker-compose.yml` on the Unraid server should reference your Docker Hub image:

```yaml
services:
  paul-blake-site:
    image: your-username/paul-blake-site:latest
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    # ... other configuration
```

### Manual Deployment

You can also deploy manually:

```bash
# Build for production
npm run build

# Or using Docker
docker build -t paul-blake-site:latest .
```

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (Pages Router)
- **Content**: MDX with gray-matter
- **Styling**: Plain CSS
- **Deployment**: Docker + GitHub Actions
- **Server**: Unraid with Docker Compose

## Learn More

To learn more about the technologies used:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - Next.js features and API
- [MDX Documentation](https://mdxjs.com/) - Writing content with MDX
- [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) - Containerization
- [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) - CI/CD workflows

## License

This project is personal/educational use. Content and code are © Paul Blake.

Commit message:

Add Giscus comment system integration and update dependencies
- Introduced Giscus for comments on blog posts, enhancing user engagement with GitHub Discussions integration.
- Updated package.json and package-lock.json to include new dependencies: @giscus/react and related packages.
- Enhanced README.md to document the new comment system features and usage.
- Updated blog post pages to include the Comments component for user interaction.

This update improves the interactivity of the website and provides a seamless commenting experience for users.

README.md, after:

# Paul Blake's Personal Website

A modern Next.js website featuring a blog, project showcase, and personal information. Built with MDX for rich content creation and deployed with Docker and CI/CD automation.

<!-- Trigger deployment to fix profile image display - 2025-06-10 -->

This is a personal website and blog built with [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) using the Pages Router. The site features a main blog and a dedicated theology section for Christian faith, theological discussions, and philosophy.

## Features

- **Personal Blog**: Thoughts on development, technology, and general interests
- **Theology Section**: Dedicated area for Christian faith, theology, philosophy, and science discussions
- **Comment System**: GitHub Discussions integration with reactions and email notifications
- **MDX Support**: Write blog posts in Markdown with React component support
- **Responsive Design**: Clean, modern UI that works on all devices
- **Static Site Generation**: Optimized performance with Next.js SSG
- **Docker Support**: Containerized for easy deployment

## Project Structure

```
├── content/
│   └── blog/
│       ├── theology/           # Theological blog posts
│       ├── first-post.mdx     # Regular blog posts
│       └── second-post.mdx
├── pages/
│   ├── blog/
│   │   ├── theology/          # Theology section pages
│   │   │   ├── index.js       # Theology blog index
│   │   │   └── [slug].js      # Individual theology posts
│   │   ├── index.js           # Main blog index
│   │   └── [slug].js          # Individual blog posts
│   └── index.js               # Homepage
└── styles/
    └── globals.css
```

## Getting Started

### Development

First, install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Then run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

### Docker Development

You can also run the project using Docker:

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t paul-blake-website .

# Run the container
docker run -p 3010:3010 paul-blake-website
```

Or use Docker Compose:
 
```bash
docker compose up
```

## Blog Content

### Writing Blog Posts

- **Regular Posts**: Add `.mdx` files to `content/blog/`
- **Theology Posts**: Add `.mdx` files to `content/blog/theology/`

Each post requires frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: "Your Post Title"
date: "2025-01-27"
author: "Paul Blake"
---
```

### Theology Section

The theology section (`/blog/theology`) is dedicated to:
- Christian faith and doctrine
- Theological discussions and apologetics
- Philosophy and worldview topics
- Science and faith intersection

## Comment System

The website features an integrated comment system powered by [Giscus](https://giscus.app) and GitHub Discussions.

### Features
- **GitHub Integration**: Comments are stored as GitHub Discussions in this repository
- **No Separate Registration**: Users comment with their existing GitHub accounts
- **Reactions**: Like/dislike and emoji reactions on posts and comments
- **Email Notifications**: Automatic notifications when someone replies to your comment
- **Moderation**: Full moderation capabilities through GitHub's interface
- **Privacy Focused**: No tracking, no ads, open source

### How It Works
- Comments appear at the bottom of each blog post (both regular and theology posts)
- Users click "Sign in with GitHub" to leave comments
- Each blog post creates a separate GitHub Discussion automatically
- Users receive email notifications for replies based on their GitHub notification settings
- Repository maintainers can moderate comments directly on GitHub

### For Users
- Visit any blog post and scroll to the bottom to see the comment section
- Sign in with GitHub to participate in discussions
- Customize your GitHub notification preferences to control email alerts
- Use reactions (👍👎❤️😄🎉😕🚀👀) to engage with posts and comments

## Deployment

### Automated Deployment to Unraid

This project includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically deploys to an Unraid server on every push to the `main` branch.

#### Workflow Features:
- **Docker Build**: Creates optimized Docker image for `linux/amd64`
- **Docker Hub Push**: Pushes image to Docker Hub registry
- **SSH Deployment**: Pulls latest image and restarts on Unraid server
- **Auto Cleanup**: Removes old Docker images to save space

#### Required GitHub Secrets:

Set these in your repository settings under **Settings** → **Secrets and variables** → **Actions**:

| Secret | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `DOCKER_USERNAME` | Docker Hub username | `your-username` |
| `DOCKER_TOKEN` | Docker Hub access token | `dckr_pat_...` |
| `UNRAID_HOST` | Unraid server IP address | `192.168.1.100` |
| `UNRAID_USERNAME` | Unraid username | `root` |
| `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | SSH private key for Unraid access | `-----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----...` |

#### Deployment Process:
1. Code is pushed to `main` branch
2. GitHub Actions builds Docker image
3. Image is pushed to Docker Hub registry
4. SSH into Unraid server and pull latest image from Docker Hub
5. Docker Compose restarts container with new image
6. Old images are cleaned up automatically

#### Docker Compose Configuration:

Your `docker-compose.yml` on the Unraid server should reference your Docker Hub image:

```yaml
services:
  paul-blake-site:
    image: your-username/paul-blake-site:latest
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    # ... other configuration
```

### Manual Deployment

You can also deploy manually:

```bash
# Build for production
npm run build

# Or using Docker
docker build -t paul-blake-site:latest .
```

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14 (Pages Router)
- **Content**: MDX with gray-matter
- **Styling**: Plain CSS
- **Deployment**: Docker + GitHub Actions
- **Server**: Unraid with Docker Compose

## Learn More

To learn more about the technologies used:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - Next.js features and API
- [MDX Documentation](https://mdxjs.com/) - Writing content with MDX
- [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) - Containerization
- [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) - CI/CD workflows

## License

This project is personal/educational use. Content and code are © Paul Blake.
